<?php require("../../entete.php");?> <?php require("../../base.php");?> <?php require("../../fonctions.php");?>

<div id="corps">

<h2>Environment</h2>

<p align="center">Thanks to Franz Bourlet for the idea</p>

<p>How can Linux be different from Windows when it comes to environment,
you might ask? After all, they're both just pieces of software with
little impact on pollution or climate change. Well, choosing Linux can
actually have an influence on the environment:</p>

<ul>

<li>Windows and Mac OS are sold in boxes. This means that massive
amounts of paper and plastic need to be manufactured before the boxes
get to your nearby store's shelves (and be disposed of after you buy
them). Linux is freely downloadable from the Internet; no amount of
plastic or paper is involved.</li>

<li>Proprietary applications for Windows or Mac OS are also, most of
the time, sold in local stores, in boxes, whereas you can download the
vast majority of software for Linux from the Internet, for free (again, 
a whole
lot of saved paper and plastic!).</li>

<li>As the hardware requirements for Windows or Mac OS get higher and
higher, a lot of computers are made obsolete, and would need to be
disposed of... but since Linux runs pretty well even on very old
machines, they can be recycled for various purposes (storage, internet
access, multimedia box, etc.) instead of being thrown out!</li>

<li>Millions of CDs are pressed to hold Windows or Mac OS boxes and are
sold to customers. Linux also needs to be burnt on a CD before
installation (in most cases at least -- installation from the network
or from a hard disk is also quite common). However, most people choose
to burn it on a rewritable CD ("CD-RW"), which can be reused for other
purposes after the installation is over (unlike proprietary operating
systems, you don't need to keep the CD around after you've installed the
software, you can always download it again later). </li>

</ul>

</div>
</body>
</html>
